README.md, before:

[![CI](https://github.com/lpenz/autofolder/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lpenz/autofolder/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![coveralls](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/lpenz/autofolder/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/lpenz/autofolder?branch=main)
[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/autofolder)](https://crates.io/crates/autofolder)
[![doc.rs](https://docs.rs/autofolder/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/autofolder)


# autofolder

*autofolder* provides a single-element "folding" container that
can be used to accumulate/select/etc. values in an ad-hoc fashion.

## TL;DR

```rust
use autofolder::*;

// Create an autofolder that retains the max u32 value:
let mut max = DynFolder::new(0_u32, std::cmp::max);

// We can "fold-in" individual items:
max.fold(3);

// We can then peek at the running output:
println!("Partial max is {}", max.as_ref());

// And still keep on folding by processing whole iterators:
max.extend((1..=5));

// And finally consume the autofolder to get the final output value:
println!("Max value is {}", max.into_inner());
```

## Rationale

*Folding* in Rust is accomplished via the [`Iterator::fold`]
method, like so:
```rust
iterator.fold(initial, function);
```

That works well when all the data we need is provided by a single iterator. If we have a
more complex logic, `fold` can't be used.

*autofolder* flips this structure by being built with the initial value and the folding
function, and accepting values from various types of different sources during its lifetime.

```rust
let mut autofolder = Autofolder::new(initial, function);
// Fold in a whole iterator, can be repeated:
autofolder.extend(iterator);
// Fold in an individual value:
autofolder.fold(value);
```

[`Iterator::fold`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/iter/trait.Iterator.html#method.fold
[`DynFolder`]:https://docs.rs/autofolder/latest/autofolder/struct.DynFolder.html

Commit message:

ImplFolder: implementing the folding function as a trait
This should be slightly faster than DynFolder because we end up using
monomorphization instead of dynamic dispatch. The down side is that we
can't implement it for types outside of the current crated (trait
limitation) and we can only have one folder per pair of types.

README.md, after:

[![CI](https://github.com/lpenz/autofolder/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lpenz/autofolder/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![coveralls](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/lpenz/autofolder/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/lpenz/autofolder?branch=main)
[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/autofolder)](https://crates.io/crates/autofolder)
[![doc.rs](https://docs.rs/autofolder/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/autofolder)


# autofolder

*autofolder* provides a single-element "folding" container that
can be used to accumulate/select/etc. values in an ad-hoc fashion.

## TL;DR: [`DynFolder`] example

```rust
use autofolder::*;

// Create an autofolder that retains the max u32 value:
let mut max = DynFolder::new(0_u32, std::cmp::max);

// We can "fold-in" individual items:
max.fold(3);

// We can then peek at the running output:
println!("Partial max is {}", max.as_ref());

// And still keep on folding by processing whole iterators:
max.extend((1..=5));

// And finally consume the autofolder to get the final output value:
println!("Max value is {}", max.into_inner());
```

## Rationale

*Folding* in Rust is accomplished via the [`Iterator::fold`] method, like so:
```rust
iterator.fold(initial, function);
// (and this is all you can do)
```

That works well when all the data we need is provided by a single iterator. If we have a
more complex logic, `fold` can't be used.

*autofolder* flips this structure by being built with the initial value and the folding
function, and accepting values from various types of different sources during its lifetime.

```rust
let mut autofolder = Autofolder::new(initial, function);
// Fold in a whole iterator, can be repeated:
autofolder.extend(iterator);
// Fold in an individual value:
autofolder.fold(value);
```

## Types of folders

This crate provides two types of autofolders with different strategies:
- [`DynFolder`]: the folding function is provided as a closure
  that is kept in a struct field. Characteristics:
  - Folding function can use any type, builtin or otherwise.
  - Each instance can use a different folding function, provided as a constructor argument.
    On the flip side, we can't use `DynFolder` with [`.collect()`](Iterator::collect).
  - Slightly less efficient than `ImplFolder` due to the use of dynamic dispatch - we are
    effectively using a function pointer instead of a function call, after all.
- [`ImplFolder`]: the folding function is implemented via a trait.
  - Folding function can only use types defined in the user crate, which is a limitation of
    using traits.
  - Each parameterized `ImplFolder`, defined by the pair of types, can only have one folding
    function. Because of that, we can use `ImplFolder` with
    [`.collect()`](Iterator::collect) if the `output` type implements [`Default`]
  - Slighly more efficient than `DynFolder` due to monomorphization, which turns `.fold`
    calls into direct function calls.

[`Iterator::fold`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/iter/trait.Iterator.html#method.fold
[`DynFolder`]: https://docs.rs/autofolder/latest/autofolder/struct.DynFolder.html
[`ImplFolder`]: https://docs.rs/autofolder/latest/autofolder/struct.ImplFolder.html
[`Default`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/default/trait.Default.html
[Iterator::collect]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/core/iter/traits/iterator/trait.Iterator.html#method.collect
